Mandarin-English Code-Switching

Code-switching in Mandarin and English is prevalent within China and in multilingual Chinese diasporan communities throughout the globe, though this project will zoom in on Southeast Asia. Mandarin-English code switching exists for a number of reasons that pertain to code-switching between other languages. Bilingual Mandarin-English speakers employ code switching as a form of self-expression. In conversation, code-switching between English and Mandarin enables bilinguals to selectively include or exclude interlocutors who lack Mandarin competency or interlocutors who lack English competency. Code-switching reveals the language in a bilingual has internalized each concept. For instance, a bilingual might explain philosophy in Mandarin but music theory in English since they have conceptualized philosophy in Mandarin but music theory in English. Code-switching serves a phatic function. Speakers sprinkle a few English words into Mandarin-dominated speech or vice-versa in order to emphasize the few distinctively expressed words. 

From a standpoint specific to English-Mandarin code-switching, this code-switching type stands out as multi-contextual. Mandarin-English code-switching pervades a wide array of social and conversational contexts, including casual conversations, blogging, academia, interviews, and movies. Dealing only with mixed Mandarin-English speech of course, this investigation will scrutinize the frequency of Mandarin words in a formal register (e.g., interviews and academia) against the frequency of Mandarin words in an informal register (e.g., casual conversations, blogging, and movies). The split between spontaneous speech (e.g., casual conversations and blogs) and scripted or well-versed speech (e.g., interviews, academia, and movies) sounds appealing but may not impact code-switching bilinguals' speech in a consistent, uniform fashion. A bilingual more fluent in Mandarin might intersperse fewer English words might intersperse fewer English words in spontaneous speech than rehearsed speech whereas a bilingual more fluent in English might intermix fewer Mandarin words in spontaneous speech. Only scarce indications of the competency of the bilinguals in each language is accessible.

The data that this investigation does have access to includes SEAME's records of English-Mandarin code-switching in Singapore, two SEAME-derived and repackaged tests sets in which one is Singaporean English-dominated and the other is Mandarin-dominated, the subtitles of The Journey(2014) -- a movie illustrative of code-switching in a diasporan Chinese community in Malaysia -- if they can be isolated in Open Subtitles via the number tags, and English-Mandarin blogs by young Macao people.
