Mandarin-English Code-Switching Proposal

Code-switching in Mandarin and English is prevalent within China and in multilingual Chinese diaspora communities throughout the globe, though this project will zoom in on Southeast Asia. Mandarin-English code switching exists for a number of reasons that pertain to code-switching between other languages. Bilingual Mandarin-English speakers employ code switching as a form of self-expression. In conversation, code-switching between English and Mandarin enables bilinguals to selectively include or exclude interlocutors who lack Mandarin competency or interlocutors who lack English competency. Code-switching reveals the language in a bilingual has internalized each concept. For instance, a bilingual might explain philosophy in Mandarin but music theory in English since they have conceptualized philosophy in Mandarin but music theory in English. Code-switching serves a phatic function. Speakers sprinkle a few English words into Mandarin-dominated speech or vice-versa in order to emphasize the few distinctively expressed words. 

From a standpoint specific to English-Mandarin code-switching, this code-switching type stands out as multi-contextual. Mandarin-English code-switching pervades a wide array of social and conversational contexts, including casual conversations, blogging, academia, interviews, and movies. This investigation will evaluate code-switching in blogging, in a movie, and interview question-prompted conversation. Considering an assertion that Mandarin speakers opt for English  monosyllabic (i.e., one-syllable) words in a dissertation titled Chinese-English Code-Switching in Blogs by Young People (p 54), this investigation will quantify the proportion of English words that are monosyllabic. This study will have to filter out the multisyllabic words that Mandarin speakers have no choice but to use, such as the word “english” or proper names like “michael” or “backstreet” in “backstreet boys.” Then the number of  everyday English monosyllables will be compared with the total number of English common, everyday words.

Code-Switching in (Linguistic Data Consortium)

Consult with the shared Google Doc for a sample interview transcript illustrating code-switching.


The data that this investigation have access to includes SEAME's records of Singaporean English-Mandarin code-switching in 192 hours of interviews, two SEAME-derived and repackaged informal speech tests sets in which one is Singaporean English-dominated and the other is Mandarin-dominated, the subtitles of The Journey(2014) -- a movie illustrative of code-switching in a diasporan Chinese community in Malaysia -- if they can be isolated in Open Subtitles via the number tags, and English-Mandarin blogs by young Macao people. Two articles deal with the SEAME data, one by the Linguistic Consortium Data, One in Interspeech 2010, and an article in Digital Library the same as in Interspeech. Another  article pertains to The Journey(2014).  A dissertation titled Chinese-English Code Switching in Blogs by Young Macao People expounds on the patterns observed in the blogs, including the propensity for English monosyllables.


References

Consult with the shared Google Doc for the citations.
